15/03/2026, 08:23

Hiring: Skills vs. Aptitude - Blake Scholl

Hiring: Skills vs. Aptitude

At Boom we hire for what people can learn—not what they already know
BLAKE SCHOLL
AUG 18, 2025

29

4

4

Share

A friend recently sent me a resume which stretched on for four pages. I advised her to
revise to a single, compelling page. Shockingly (to me), some of her other hiring
manager-friends advised her to put the extra detail back.
This got me thinking about two very different approaches to team and companybuilding: skills-centric and aptitude-centric.

Thanks for reading! Subscribe for free to
receive new posts and support my work.
rafaeldf2@gmail.com

Subscribe

Aptitude-Centric Mindset
The aptitude-centric hiring manager (HM) doesn’t give a crap about which CAD tools
you’ve used, what programing languages you’re expert at, etc. She assumes that your
job will constantly push you outside the boundaries of what you already know, and
cares about your ability to learn fast and to be a culture fit. This kind of manager cares
about what you’ve accomplished and particularly values a track record of success in a
variety of verticals or industries—as this is proof of your ability to adapt and succeed in
new situations quickly. The aptitude-centric hiring manager looks for evidence that
you are smart and driven—a strong academic pedigree can help, as does a track record
of quick promotions in prior roles. “Certifications” are a red flag. This HM likes onepage resumes: candidates demonstrate thinking and communication skills through
condensing themselves to a single, easily digestible page. You get the job if you are

https://bscholl.substack.com/p/hiring-skills-vs-aptitude

1/3

15/03/2026, 08:23

Hiring: Skills vs. Aptitude - Blake Scholl

smart, high-judgment, a quick learner, and a strong culture fit—and have at least
enough background experience or education that they won’t spend too long training
you.
Skills-Centric Mindset
The skills-centric hiring manager wants to hire you into a job you already know how
to do. So, he cares a lot about your specific skills. He doesn’t care if your resume is a
few pages long, as he is happy to keyword search across pages to see whether you
already know what he cares about. This kind of HM looks for an engineer who is a
“Java developer” or a PM who is agile-certified or ISO something-or-other, or projects
within a certain industry. He loves certifications because they prove your competence
in a relevant domain. In hiring you for a role where you will do X, the skills-centric
HM cares about whether you’ve already succeeded at X—often in a very concrete way.
Skills-centric HMs like long resumes that list everything you know.
You will find aptitude-centric HMs in companies and for roles where innovation is a
priority—where the company is pushing the state of the art and you’re expected to
help move the ball forward, and where figuring out the definition of success is part of
the challenge. You’ll be expected to work a lot and do whatever it takes to succeed.
The aptitude-centric HM prides himself on getting the best possible talent for his
“impossible” mission. The skills-centric HM is proud of making a wide variety of
personalities effective in his organization.
The issue is more about the nature of the role (and its challenges) than the personality
of the HM. If you take a skills-based approach to hiring on an innovation team, you
won’t get high performance. If you hire a bunch of innovators for a turn-the-crank
operational team, they’ll be disruptive, unhappy, and quit.
Sitting in the shoes of a hiring manager, you need to ask yourself: what kind of team
do I really need to build? Is the challenge dynamic? Are you expecting your team to
innovate and solve hitherto unsolved problems? Or are you expecting your team to
“pound it out”—do you need someone to follow an established formula for success?
If you’re building an innovation team, you desperately need to focus on aptitude. If you
are building a team that just needs to execute on an established formula, you may be
best off with a skills-based approach to hiring.
As an executive, you need to ask what kind of company you are building? If you are
building a growth-stage innovation company, you need to bias for aptitude in every
role, from receptionist to chief scientist. Your organization is rapidly expanding and
adapting, and you need high-aptitude people in every role who can establish the
principles for their areas and quickly grow into the next challenge.
Hiring at Boom: Culture first, Aptitude Second, Skills Third
At Boom, we unequivocally hire for culture first, aptitude second, skills third. We care
what you’ll have learned to do by Day 90 far more than what you’re capable of on Day
One.

https://bscholl.substack.com/p/hiring-skills-vs-aptitude

2/3

15/03/2026, 08:23

Hiring: Skills vs. Aptitude - Blake Scholl

In fact, our most successful employees are all doing things that they haven’t done
before—sometimes things no one has done before. This creates a unique opportunity
for us to attract best-in-the-world talent—a compelling mission for people who are
smart, inspired, driven… without much of a filter on prior knowledge or experience. In
fact, we have an always-open req for Your Dream Job—a way for high-aptitude people
passionate about our mission to get in touch, even if they aren’t a fit for any particular
currently-open role.

Thanks for reading! Subscribe for free to
receive new posts and support my work.
rafaeldf2@gmail.com

Subscribe

29 Likes ∙ 4 Restacks

Discussion about this post
Comments Restacks

Write a comment...
Jackson 25 Sept
How would you recommend a college freshman to start generating an aptitude-first resume and
experiences tailored for passion and success.
LIKE

REPLY

SHARE

David Foster David Foster 1 Sept
Skill-centric mindset….see Hunting the Five-Pound Butterfly:
https://chicagoboyz.net/archives/58116.html
LIKE

REPLY

SHARE

2 more comments...

© 2026 Blake Scholl · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice
Substack is the home for great culture

https://bscholl.substack.com/p/hiring-skills-vs-aptitude

3/3

