02/11/2025, 20:07

The Hottest Job in Tech - by Evan Armstrong - The Leverage

The Hottest Job in Tech
All that’s old is new again
EVAN ARMSTRONG
AUG 05, 2025 ∙ PAID

29

1

2

Share

Time is a flat circle and so is hiring in Silicon Valley. The latest example is a “forward
deployed engineer” (FDE) for AI companies. These employees are bundled in with a
software contract to help a new customer actually use the product they just bought. In
practice, it means they code some stuff, but more importantly, they get the customer to
actually use what was coded.
It’s hard to overstate how popular this role is right now. OpenAI will send you one if
you are spending $10 million a year with them. I talked with multiple recruiters at VC
funds who help their portfolio companies hire talent, and they all expressed the same
sentiment. “The majority of the AI companies I work with are hiring for this role,”
Dwane Hamilton of Greylock told me.
The temptation is to dismiss this job. After all, isn’t an FDE a consultant with a
yassified title? I mean…yes. But that doesn’t mean it isn’t valuable! Consultants exist
for a reason. A technically competent outsider helps a company by giving permission
to quickly cut through bureaucracy.
What’s actually interesting about the rise of this role is what it indicates about the
market structure. That these titles are newly popular—and weren’t popular in the last
decade—shows that something has changed to make them necessary and profitable. So
today, I would argue that these roles matter for two reasons:
1. Platform shifts
2. New pricing models

Why now?
When HR platform Workday ($WDAY) IPO’d in 2012, much of the analyst chatter was
about its high services component. At the point of its debut, 35% of the company’s
revenue came from sending engineers onsite to help customers move their HR data to
https://www.gettheleverage.com/p/the-hottest-job-in-tech?triedRedirect=true

1/5

02/11/2025, 20:07

The Hottest Job in Tech - by Evan Armstrong - The Leverage

the cloud. Investors hated this. Putting engineers up at the local Marriott Courtyard is
expensive, low margin, and slow. However, it has ended up being crucial to the longterm success of the company. Once the data was migrated to the cloud, they didn’t
need the professional services anymore.

Simultaneously, customers became more accustomed to cloud technology, allowing
their SaaS revenue to skyrocket:

When Workday first started in March of 2005, the cloud was a novel idea. At the time,
all data was kept on servers owned and operated by the company using them. Moving
to the cloud fundamentally changed how these companies operated. Cloud-first
companies can move faster and construct different workflows than those tied to old
technology in which computing needs would have to be predicted months and even
years in advance. Workday’s professional services helped generations of companies
transition to the cloud.

https://www.gettheleverage.com/p/the-hottest-job-in-tech?triedRedirect=true

2/5

02/11/2025, 20:07

The Hottest Job in Tech - by Evan Armstrong - The Leverage

The largest reason that the FDE has happened today is because AI will end up being a
bigger and more important platform shift than the cloud was. The biggest changes are
not even technological, they are operational. A full integration of AI requires
reimagining your staffing, your workflows, and your management team. With so many
people already afraid of losing their job to AI, FDEs can also play the role of bad cop.
They give the CEO a tool by which to force their company to change.
Most importantly, AI companies need to hire FDEs because otherwise their customers
are likely to purchase and then never use their products.
Even when a company isn’t using the title of FDE, I have seen in-house technical skills
sprinkled on every part of the sales process. At Clay, a GTM AI software company,
cofounder Varun Anand told me about the “Go To Market Engineers.” These are AIpilled individuals who are still, at their core, sales staff, but are “coming from a more
technical, product-minded person. It means a lot more trust, way more effective, and
less combative.” While not FDE in title, I think Clay’s version qualifies in spirit. They
may not be doing implementation like an FDE, but they are customizing their pitch
based on an understanding of the potential client’s tech stack. While only “20% of their
actual work is technical, that technical background really helps with the other 80%.”
Perhaps the simplest way to summarize an FDE-adjacent role is this: a person who has
the technical skills and organizational permission to allow companies to totally
remake themselves. They are popular today because AI is such a dramatic change in
operations and technology that customers struggle to implement it themselves.
For paying subscribers, we’ll review:
What pricing model justifies adding FDEs?
What ACV should it be justified with?
Who are the startups leading the way with this job today?

Operational details
Alright, prepare yourself. We’re gonna do some napkin math.
A senior FDE typically pulls in a $200‑$300K salary. For example, Anthropic listed its
hires at $250‑$375K, while ServiceNow tops out at $303K. As a rule of thumb, you
typically want to keep services ≤ 25 % of Year‑1 contract value to preserve gross
margin. The remaining contract value should go to the actual software and product
costs, other employees and overhead, and actual profit. If you put those together, there
is an implied average contract value floor of a million bucks. ($250K FDE cost ÷ 25%
buffer). Alternatively, you would be looking for a $250‑300K ACV on a three‑year SaaS
contract.
That is roughly 10x the $26K median average contract value for private SaaS, so only
the upper decile of deals can justify an embedded engineer. That said, the optimist
may win out here. Those SaaS averages come from the seat-based pricing era of the
last decade! You could potentially bill much more if you believe in the growth of
usage-based pricing as exemplified by companies like Databricks and Snowflake. In a
recent interview, the Chief Revenue Officer of Databricks disclosed they would give

https://www.gettheleverage.com/p/the-hottest-job-in-tech?triedRedirect=true

3/5

02/11/2025, 20:07

The Hottest Job in Tech - by Evan Armstrong - The Leverage

out their equivalent of an FDE for a 100K contract because the company had 1) enough
funding to justify the burn and 2) outcome-based pricing—they just believe they’ll be
offering enough in value that the costs will balance out.
What’s fascinating is that the “person who helps us use AI” is increasingly nontechnical. At Runway, a video clip generation company, they send “creatives” in to help
the ad agencies and movie studios reimagine their workflows. Cristóbal Valenzuela,
CEO of Runway described it as follows in a recent interview, "Most of what you can do
with Runway is non-traditional. It kind of breaks the mold on how you've done content
before."
Essentially, the rate at which FDEs are deployed depends on the confidence you have
in rapidly growing spend. There is an argument to be made that companies should be
having FDEs bundled with 100K contracts under the assumption that market share
tomorrow is far, far greater than margins today. As in all things software today it
comes down to your belief on the power of AI models to take over large portions of
existing knowledge worker’s tasks. If it becomes a meaningful percentage, and the AI
tool provider can capture a large enough portion of that value, high powered sales and
implementation staff are a wise investment.

Recommend The Leverage to your readers

Read the future first: Clear-eyed analysis of tech market shifts. Beauty, craft, and moderately
funny jokes included at no extra charge.
Recommend
29 Likes ∙ 2 Restacks

Discussion about this post
Comments Restacks

Write a comment...

Wayne D. 6 Aug

As we said years ago about software of any delivery model, make it “stick” don’t let it become
“shelfware”. FDE’s are the realization of that observation.
LIKE

REPLY

https://www.gettheleverage.com/p/the-hottest-job-in-tech?triedRedirect=true

SHARE

4/5

02/11/2025, 20:07

The Hottest Job in Tech - by Evan Armstrong - The Leverage

© 2025 Evan Armstrong ∙ Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice
Substack is the home for great culture

https://www.gettheleverage.com/p/the-hottest-job-in-tech?triedRedirect=true

5/5

