15/03/2026, 08:22

The airplane that unlocked the supersonic age

The airplane that unlocked the supersonic
age
Reflecting on XB-1's legacy one year later
BLAKE SCHOLL
JAN 28, 2026

23

2

Share

I. Righting a historic wrong and unlocking the supersonic age

From the Wright Bros first flight to the dawn of the jet age, humanity always strived to
fly faster and higher, and every major generation of airplane exceeded the performance
of those that came before it. The jet age didn’t just mean faster flights—it meant
human connection across distance.

Thanks for reading! Subscribe for free to
receive new posts and support my work.
rafaeldf2@gmail.com

Subscribe

The Anglo-French Concorde was supposed to usher in the supersonic age—but it was
stillborn. Stratospheric operating costs and issues with sonic boom restricted
supersonic flight to the well-heeled and only on a handful of routes. Supersonic flight
was banned in the US in 1973. A tragic accident in 2001 cemented Concorde’s failure,
and the so-called supersonic age passed without really starting. Five decades passed
without a new civil supersonic airplane taking to the skies.
When Boom was founded in 2014, there remained two principal obstacles to
supersonic travel: economics and sonic boom. The XB-1 was conceived to demonstrate
three key things:
A small, privately funded team could build a supersonic jet with a small budget
outside of a major OEM
Performance gains with modern tech could enable a more efficient & affordable
supersonic airliner
Sonic boom could be overcome, enabling supersonic flight on dramatically more
routes

https://bscholl.substack.com/p/the-airplane-that-unlocked-the-supersonic

1/5

15/03/2026, 08:22

The airplane that unlocked the supersonic age

XB-1 achieved its goals—proving the issues holding back Concorde have been overcome.
While it was never designed to carry passengers, XB-1’s “actual use” included
providing the proof that resulted in legalizing supersonic flight. On June 6th, 2025,
President Trump signed an Executive Order overturning the prohibition on supersonic
flight in the US—just 115 days after XB-1’s boomless flight . This unlocks a new
supersonic age—including Boom’s Overture airliner and proposed business aircraft
from other makers.

II. The efficiency to unlock economical supersonic flight
XB-1 demonstrated multiple innovations for supersonic efficiency, enabling longer
range and lower fares.
Augmented Reality Vision System: Whereas Concorde famously had a “droop
nose” for runway visibility, XB-1 used a first-of-its-kind digital vision system for
takeoff and landing. This approach reduced supersonic drag by 5% and eliminated
~2% of empty weight compared to a mechanical moving nose.
Improved software-defined aerodynamics and area-ruled fuselage: Whereas
Concorde had a constant cross section fuselage, XB-1 has a carbon-composite
“area ruled” (coke-bottled) fuselage that reduced transonic and supersonic drag.
XB-1 is the first civil supersonic aircraft with these features.
XB-1 met or exceeded all of its predicted performance targets—including lift to drag
ratio, propulsive efficiency, and empty weight—validating its tools and models and
thereby Boom’s performance predictions for Overture.

III. A small committed team can achieve mighty things
Traditionally, supersonic aircraft have been built only by major corporations with
billions in public funding. XB-1 demonstrated that a small team with limited private
funding can achieve supersonic flight.

https://bscholl.substack.com/p/the-airplane-that-unlocked-the-supersonic

2/5

15/03/2026, 08:22

The airplane that unlocked the supersonic age

XB-1 was built by a team of just 50 committed men and women—including engineers,
technicians, and pilots—and a budget of $190M. Both represent ~order of magnitude
improvements in program performance. After XB-1’s final flight, the team that built
XB-1 signed their work.
XB-1 represents nearly an order of magnitude cost improvement over traditional
development programs.

III. Silencing the boom—a practical and reliable solution
for quiet supersonic
Concerns about sonic boom limited Concorde to supersonic flight over water only—
and the blanket prohibition on supersonic flight in the US since 1973. Other proposed
supersonic aircraft (such as X-59) have boom attenuation through exotic aircraft
shaping, at the expense of structural and aerodynamic efficiency—and therefore at the
expense of affordability to the flying public.
XB-1 demonstrated Mach cutoff, a solution to sonic boom that works reliably at
speeds up to Mach 1.3, without compromise to efficiency. XB-1 demonstrated this on
six supersonic runs at speeds up to Mach 1.18.
“Boomless Cruise” leverages the natural refractive power of the atmosphere to direct
the sonic boom away from the ground. Meaning, the aircraft still produces a sonic
boom, but it is inaudible on the ground. In brief, the speed of sound varies with
temperature, and therefore is lower at altitude where it is cold and higher at ground
where it is warm. Therefore, all sound waves naturally bend upward as they propagate
through the atmosphere. Boomless Cruise uses weather data and a computer model to
predict the maximum “quiet” speed for any given day’s weather.

Mach Cutoff was not invented by Boom—the physics have been known for decades
but never demonstrated reliably in practice. Using ground-based microphone arrays,
the XB-1 team confirmed that the sonic boom refracted and dissipated without
reaching the ground. Concorde lacked the weather data, computing power, and
transonic efficiency to make boomless cruise practical.

https://bscholl.substack.com/p/the-airplane-that-unlocked-the-supersonic

3/5

15/03/2026, 08:22

The airplane that unlocked the supersonic age

XB-1 demonstrated all the components for practical boomless supersonic flight:
reliable digital models to calculate max quiet speeds and the transonic/high-altitude
performance to fly the required flight profiles.

IV. Speed without compromise: a safety-first supersonic
airplane & culture
While there was never an accident directly related to supersonic flight, features of
Concorde’s design contributed to its one fatal accident: Concorde’s high runway
operating speeds (over 200kt) meant an encounter with runway debris proved
catastrophic. This was exacerbated by poor engine out / gear extended climb
performance.
XB-1 demonstrated solutions to both these safety problems: with a design that
balances low-speed and high-speed performance, XB-1 has significantly lower energy
on the runway than Concorde, with rotation speed of 155kts and approach speeds of
175kts. Additionally, XB-1 achieved a strong margin of safety climb performance with
an engine out and landing gear extended.
Importantly, XB-1 is the first small supersonic aircraft not to have an ejection seat.
Paradoxically, this led to a significantly safer airplane. Ejections—particularly at
supersonic speeds—frequently lead to serous injury or death and are not a safety
solution for passengers. As a result, Boom committed to building XB-1 with a high
safety bar and no ejection seat. This opened the path to myriad technical and program
decisions increasing safety, such as redundant air data and extensive wind tunnel and
ground testing.
The XB-1 program was conducted with zero mishaps and zero OSHA reportable
incidents.
These accomplishments are underpinned by a safety-first program philosophy and
culture. Near-misses were treated as if they were real incidents and learnings fed into
improved operating procedures. XB-1 operated with a defined risk-acceptance bar and
a culture where risks were tested openly against this bar and accepted or mitigated as
appropriate. The notion of conscious risk-acceptance created a culture where risks
could be discussed and debated openly. Boom maintained a backup anonymous safety
reporting system—but it was rarely used once the safety culture was well-established.
The program was rehearsal-rich and test-rich, with hundreds of simulator hours—
many with a full control room—27 full-aircraft ground tests, and 15 high-speed taxi
tests in the final flight configuration. Each event was treated with the same
preparation as a flight, with dedicated briefs and telemetry rehearsals that trained the
team to recognize hazards in real time, including over 20,000 hours of data review and
nearly 80 briefing sessions. This diligent campaign exemplified a safety-first culture
where innovation and discipline were mutually reinforcing.

V. XB-1’s legacy: the airplane that unlocked the
supersonic age
In 2025, XB-1 became the first civil supersonic jet manufactured in America and the
first in history to be developed independently of government. It was the first civil
https://bscholl.substack.com/p/the-airplane-that-unlocked-the-supersonic

4/5

15/03/2026, 08:22

The airplane that unlocked the supersonic age

supersonic aircraft to take to the skies in over half a century. Most important, XB-1 led
directly to the legalization of supersonic flight in the US.
XB-1 has earned its place in history as the airplane that unlocked a supersonic age.
But more than that, XB-1 has played an important symbolic and inspirational role in
the rebirth of American leadership in aviation. When Boom was founded in 2014, there
were scant aviation startups—and none that were working on new airliner technology.
XB-1 is a testament to the American entrepreneurial spirit and has already inspired
many to launch ambitious new development programs, including multiple new airliner
startups.

Thanks for reading! Subscribe for free to
receive new posts and support my work.
rafaeldf2@gmail.com

Subscribe

23 Likes ∙ 2 Restacks

Discussion about this post
Comments Restacks

Write a comment...

© 2026 Blake Scholl · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice
Substack is the home for great culture

https://bscholl.substack.com/p/the-airplane-that-unlocked-the-supersonic

5/5

