02/11/2025, 20:06

WTF is a forward-deployed engineer?

WTF is a forward-deployed engineer?
Other than fancy words for a technical implementation consultant.
THOMAS OTTER
APR 21, 2025

9

1

2

Share

I applaud getting engineers close to customers. It can lead to wonderful things.

substack put the subscribe button here.
rafaeldf2@gmail.com

Subscribe

This has been a thing in the software industry since the very first projects (early
chunks of SAP R/1 was built at ICI and John Deere in Mannheim). At times
engineering does end up getting too far removed from the real customer, especially as
the product scales.
Also brilliant technical consultants can make discoveries that lead to new features or
fixes that massively improve a product for 10,000s of customers. In enterprise software,
they are often the difference between project success and failure.
But I’m a bit perplexed by the term forward deployed engineers (the term has been
around for a few years, but it recently has got a lot more attention). It has a bit of a
military ring to it, and I think Palantir coined the phrase.
Palantir describes it this way
"A Forward Deployed Software Engineer (FDSE), or “Delta,” is a software engineer
who embeds directly with our customers to configure Palantir’s existing software
platforms to solve their toughest problems. While a traditional software engineer,

https://thomasotter.substack.com/p/wtf-is-a-forward-deployed-engineer?triedRedirect=true

1/4

02/11/2025, 20:06

WTF is a forward-deployed engineer?

or “Dev,” focuses on creating a single capability that can be used for many
customers, FDSEs focus on enabling many capabilities for a single customer. "
Here’s a start up looking for a forward deployed engineer.
You will be inside large companies building relationships (should enjoy talking to
people and making magic happen), managing the operational rollouts (need to be
organized and operationally excellent), and will most importantly be working in the
product to build automations.
This blog post explains in more detail what a Forward Deployed Engineer does.
A Forward Deployed Engineer (FDE) is a versatile software engineer who works
closely with customers to bridge the gap between enterprise software products and
their specific implementation needs. FDEs collaborate with engineering teams,
provide technical support, partner with product teams, assist in revenue growth
activities, and lead customer success efforts. With a mix of technical skills, an
entrepreneurial mindset, and product intuition, FDEs play a crucial role in ensuring
successful product deployment and customer satisfaction.

Why does this matter?
I don’t really care about what companies call jobs in order to make them more
attractive for hiring purposes, or to position them to the customer. If the FDE title
attracts excellent technical people with strong people skills, cool.
I’m seeing the term forward-deployed engineer more and more in the context of AI
deployments, in job descriptions for instance. Making AI work at an enterprise
customer isn’t always as straightforward as it says on the tin. Data comes in awkward
shapes and sizes, and integrations can be complex. For many vendors, the use cases
aren’t clear. It’s not that different from the early days of ERP. Pioneering stuff; I get
that.
The person may well have similar skills to the engineers building the “product.”
Sometimes the technical challenges at one customer are greater than those facing the
rest of the customer base. It is a hard job.
(I used the Palantir example for the definition of the job, I’ve not looked at how they
account for the job and associated revenues and costs in their financials).
Where is does matter is where you put the costs and revenue in the financials. If you
invoice this work to the customer it is consulting, if you don’t it is customer success,
support or presales. But it isn’t really R&D, it’s COGS. The costs for forward-deployed
engineer go under services, and so do the revenues.
If you call it Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR), you are deluding yourself and your
investors. If you have a significant number of FDEs compared with product facing
engineers, you start to look like an AI consultancy, not a product company.
Back in my days at SAP, the CFO was fanatical about time tracking when engineers
worked on specific customers, at the time I thought he was being pedantic, but now, as

https://thomasotter.substack.com/p/wtf-is-a-forward-deployed-engineer?triedRedirect=true

2/4

02/11/2025, 20:06

WTF is a forward-deployed engineer?

an investor I understand what he was looking for. Support isn’t R&D, no matter how
technical it gets.
I’m not discounting that building something for one customer may well have positive
externalities for other customers, and it may find its way into the product at some
point. If it does, then account for it then. Getting early customers live is gold, but it is
alluvial, not a continuous seam, riffing on the mining metaphor.
I’ve another caveat. When your strongest technical resources are project facing, at first
you will be really successful. But over time, you will find it very difficult to build
standard product. After a few years you will realize that you have dozens of projects
but not much standard product. When you try to standardize your biggest opponents
will be your own technical consultants. It will be messy, you will have an internal civil
war. And your customers that have had years of bespoke service will bristle when you
try to standardize them.
One of the things I do when investing is look at what you are hiring for. By all means
hire FDEs, just when we look at your financials, let’s see them in the right box.
As usual, I’ll end with a tune. This is an old friend.

The Specials - A Message To You Rudy (Official Music Video)

Thanks for reading Work in Progress by
Thomas Otter ! Subscribe for free to receive
new posts and support my work.
rafaeldf2@gmail.com

Subscribe

9 Likes ∙ 2 Restacks

Discussion about this post
Comments Restacks

https://thomasotter.substack.com/p/wtf-is-a-forward-deployed-engineer?triedRedirect=true

3/4

02/11/2025, 20:06

WTF is a forward-deployed engineer?

Write a comment...

Meg Bear Meg Bear 21 Apr

It's a little creepy how often you and I are looking at the same ideas from different angles - I have
this (and several other "how the business of software is changing") topics in my "blogs to write" file
- [not the one that broke the apple notes app and I lost last month - the new one I've started in
google docs (!)] -- A few thoughts
1. This blog https://nabeelqu.substack.com/p/reflections-on-palantir does a good job talking about
the way that Palantir managed both the accounting and the product v. implementation thinking - I
found it interesting with a bold highlight on the security piece from my POV
2. Like you I had the same connection with the initial builds of SAP following this model
3. In the world where innovation opportunity exceeds the standard plot of "I built something that I
wanted when I had X job" because the entire jobs you need to innovate for don't exist today, I think
FDE has a lot of legs as a path to *taking the tech expertise and curiosity to the customer problem*.
Possibly I am fond of this because this was how I learned - not by being a customer per se but from
being very curious about understanding and empathizing with the customer need
3a. To your point though most are TERRIBLE at sorting out how to bring innovation back from the
customer to the product or platform - this will become more obvious as time progresses and I
suspect even Palantir has a lot of misses here.
4. Which then doubles down on the "AI/tech enabled services" opportunity - which gets me to
wonder if we are just trying to build the 21st century EDS business (NB: If you haven't read On the
Wings of Eagles and you are anywhere around the business of Payroll software you really should
https://a.co/d/986SwJy)
4a. Side tangent after reading the book - watch the movie Argo and consider the Scott Galloway
friendship question "would they hide me" - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Whz0dEVpNUM
LIKE

REPLY

SHARE

© 2025 Thomas Otter ∙ Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice
Substack is the home for great culture

https://thomasotter.substack.com/p/wtf-is-a-forward-deployed-engineer?triedRedirect=true

4/4

